The report

1. Describe a situation in your own educational practice, pedagogical or didactic in nature, which could be improved.

	Students have a poor working model of code which leads to numerous issues:
	they struggle to debug, to adjust copy-pasted code, and to predict runtime
	behaviour

2. Describe what is going well and what is not going well in this situation.

	Currently they finish the course with a moderate working understanding of
	code, not sufficient to write their own programs or adapt new code to their
	situation. This is an extremely suboptimal outcome, after 8 weeks they
	should be able to write moderately complex python programs.

	Showing what happens live on the screen is received well by students, if
	they can manage to watch what we type and try to type it themselves
	simultaneously. We know at least that our examples give the correct result,
	but students never see anything other than correct, working code, and never
	have to formulate an internal model for how to write code. They end up
	copyin and pasting and not understanding *why*. As of now nothing is going
	"well", and there is room for improvement in all aspects, but specifically
	this discussion will focus on improving mental models of code and the
	potential effects on understanding code execution.

3. Describe the problem and formulate a problem statement

	Predicting code behaviour without running it is a key component of work as a
	programmer, and a lot of the time we spend debugging relies on us emulating
	the computer in our head. Without a solid mental model of code behaviour
	one cannot predict how it will function in one situation, much less other or
	non-standard situations. Planning for code to handle both good and bad
	inputs requires some creativity and mentally planning around expected values
	at various points throughout the execution.

	This situation leaves students unprepared for incorrect or buggy code,
	either (un)intentionally included in homework assignments, or, generated by
	themselves, if they cannot identify where code will fail without executing
	it.

	\Large Students must develop a coherent and strong internal model of code execution
	to allow them to understand code flow, fix broken code, and debug issues.


4. Find relevant scientific literature concerning your problem and formulate a hypothesis (What do you think could be the solution to this problem? → If ………, then ………..)

	My hypothesis is that if we augment our lessons with:

	1. specifically stepping through the state of the internal code
	2. faded examples to help students adjust to solving increasingly underspecified examples
	3. Intentionally broken examples where we work through what's wrong

	Students will finally have enough tools to comprehend the full state of the
	machine during execution and be able to respond dynamically to failure
	states with informed experience to resolve their issues.

5. Investigate and describe what the literature indicates as possible opportunities for improvement.

	[see research.md]

6. Choose one of the improvement options and describe it (the intervention). Provide at least two arguments for this specific intervention.


	faded examples with specific debugging lessons
	1. backed up by research.
	2. i want it?
